website/pages/index.mdx, before:

import Highlight, { defaultProps } from 'prism-react-renderer';

import DrumPads from '../components/DrumPads';
import CodeBlock from '../components/CodeBlock';
import StepsEditorExample from '../components/StepsEditorExample';
import TabExample from '../components/TabExample';

React audio components for making music in the browser.

React treats UI as a function of state. What if React’s declarative programming model could be applied to music as well?

This library aims to treat **_music_** as a function of state, rendering sound instead of UI. Visual components live side by side with Reactronica, sharing the same state and elegantly kept in sync.

Uses [ToneJS](https://tonejs.github.io/) under the hood. Inspired by [React Music](https://github.com/FormidableLabs/react-music).

> Warning: Highly experimental. APIs will change.

## Install

```bash
$ npm install --save reactronica tone
```

Note: Use React version >= 16.8 as [Hooks](https://reactjs.org/docs/hooks-intro.html) are used internally.

## Demos

- [Digital Audio Workstation](/daw)
- [Music chord, scale and progression tools](https://music-toolbox.now.sh)

## Examples

### Drum Pads

Have a hit a tap out a beat.

<DrumPads />

```jsx
import { Song, Track, Instrument } from 'reactronica';

// Simplified Drum Pads
const DrumPads = () => {
  const [notes, setNotes] = React.useState(null);

  return (
    <>
      <button
        onMouseDown={() => setNotes([{ name: 'C3' }])}
        onMouseUp={() => setNotes(null)}
      >
        Kick
      </button>
      {/* ...other pads */}

      {/* Reactronica Components */}
      <Song>
        <Track>
          <Instrument
            type="sampler"
            notes={notes}
            samples={{
              C3: '/drums/kick.wav',
              D3: '/drums/snare.wav',
              E3: '/drums/hat.wav',
            }}
          />
        </Track>
      </Song>
    </>
  );
};
```

### Piano Roll

Classic piano roll step sequencer. Try editing the notes and come up with different chords and melodies.

<StepsEditorExample />

```jsx
import { Song, Track, Instrument } from 'reactronica';

// Simplified Piano Roll
const PianoRollExample = () => {
  const [isPlaying, setIsPlaying] = useState(false);
  const [currentStepIndex, setCurrentStepIndex] = useState(0);
  const [steps, setSteps] = useState([
    ['C3', 'E3', 'A3'],
    null,
    ['C3', 'E3', 'G3', 'B3'],
    null,
    ['C3', 'F3', 'A3'],
    null,
    ['D3', 'G3', 'B3'],
    null,
  ]);

  return (
    <>
      <button onClick={() => setIsPlaying(!isPlaying)}>
        {isPlaying ? 'Play' : 'Stop'}
      </button>

      <PianoRoll
        currentStepIndex={currentStepIndex}
        onClick={(steps) => setSteps(steps)}
      />

      {/* Reactronica Components */}
      <Song isPlaying={isPlaying}>
        <Track
          steps={steps}
          // Callback triggers on every step
          onStepPlay={(_, index) => {
            setCurrentStepIndex(index);
          }}
        >
          <Instrument type="polySynth" />
        </Track>
      </Song>
    </>
  );
};
```

### Ukulele Tablature

Interactive tablature for ukulele. Have a play and try changing the notes while the song is playing. Arrow keys should work as well.

<TabExample />

```jsx
import { Song, Track, Instrument } from 'reactronica';

const UkuleleTab = () => {
  const [tab, setTab] = React.useState(defaultTab);
  const [isPlaying, setIsPlaying] = React.useState(false);
  const [currentIndex, setCurrentIndex] = React.useState(0);

  const steps = tabToSteps(tab);

  return (
    <>
      <button onClick={() => setIsPlaying(!isPlaying)}>
        {isPlaying ? 'Stop' : 'Play'}
      </button>

      <Tab
        tab={tab}
        currentIndex={currentIndex}
        onUpdate={(newTab) => {
          setTab(newTab);
        }}
      />

      {/* Reactronica Components */}
      <Song isPlaying={isPlaying} tempo={90}>
        <Track
          steps={steps}
          subdivision={'8n'}
          onStepPlay={(_, i) => {
            setCurrentIndex(i);
          }}
        >
          <Instrument
            type="sampler"
            samples={{
              C4: `/ukulele/uke_060.wav`,
              'C#4': `/ukulele/uke_061.wav`,
              // ... D4 - A#5 samples
              B5: `/ukulele/uke_083.wav`,
              C6: `/ukulele/uke_084.wav`,
            }}
          />
        </Track>
      </Song>
    </>
  );
};
```

## Usage

```jsx
import React from 'react';
import { Song, Track, Instrument, Effect } from 'reactronica';

const Example = () => {
  return (
    // Top level component must be the Song, with Tracks nested inside
    <Song tempo={90} isPlaying={true}>
      <Track
        // Array of several types
        steps={[
          // Note in string format
          'C3',
          // Object with note and duration
          { note: 'C3', duration: 0.5 },
          { note: 'D3', duration: 0.5 },
          // Array of strings for chords
          ['C3', 'G3'],
          null,
          null,
          // Array of objects for chords
          [{ note: 'C3', duration: 0.5 }, { note: 'G3', duration: 0.5 }],
          null,
        ]}
        // Chain effects by putting them in an array
        effects={[
          <Effect type="feedbackDelay" />,
          <Effect type="distortion" />,
        ]}
        volume={80}
        pan={0}
        // Callback for every tick
        onStepPlay={(step, index) => {
          doSomething(step, index);
        }}
      >
        <Instrument type="polySynth" />
      </Track>

      <Track>
        <Instrument
          type="sampler"
          samples={{
            C3: 'path/to/kick.mp3',
            D3: 'path/to/snare.mp3',
            E3: 'path/to/hihat.mp3',
          }}
          // Add some notes here to play
          notes={[{ name: 'C3' }]}
        />
      </Track>
    </Song>
  );
};
```

## Documentation

### Song

This component wraps around all Reactronica components, providing top level control of the audio.

#### Props

- `tempo` - Speed or pace of the song. Measured in beats per minute.
- `isPlaying` - Whether the song is playing or not. Defaults to `false`.

### Track

Tracks make up the layers of audio within a Song. Each individual Track has independent `volume`, `pan`, `steps` and `effects`.

#### Props

- `volume` - Volume of track
- `pan` - Panning of track
- `steps` - An array of notes to play
- `effects` - An array of `<Effect />` components
- `onStepPlay` - Callback that runs on every step

### Instrument

Should be wrapped by a Track and becomes its audio source.

#### Props

- `type` - Instrument type, `AMSynth | duoSynth | FMSynth | membraneSynth | monoSynth | polySynth | sampler | synth`
- `notes` - An array of notes to trigger Instrument, useful for auditioning sounds or live performance.
- `samples` - Only for `sampler` instrument type

### Effect

Audio effects such as `feedbackDelay`, `distortion` and `freeverb`. Applied to a Track, with multiple Effects able to be added.

#### Props

- `type` - Effect type, `feedbackDelay | distortion | freeverb`

Commit message:

Add more effects and update docs

website/pages/index.mdx, after:

import Highlight, { defaultProps } from 'prism-react-renderer';

import DrumPads from '../components/DrumPads';
import CodeBlock from '../components/CodeBlock';
import StepsEditorExample from '../components/StepsEditorExample';
import TabExample from '../components/TabExample';

React audio components for making music in the browser.

React treats UI as a function of state. What if React’s declarative programming model could be applied to music as well?

This library aims to treat **_music_** as a function of state, rendering sound instead of UI. Reactronica can play complex musical sequences with web synths, samples and audio effects.

Your own UI components live side by side with Reactronica, sharing the same state and elegantly kept in sync.

Uses [ToneJS](https://tonejs.github.io/) under the hood. Inspired by [React Music](https://github.com/FormidableLabs/react-music).

> Warning: Highly experimental. APIs will change.

## Install

```bash
$ npm install --save reactronica tone
```

Note: Use React version >= 16.8 as [Hooks](https://reactjs.org/docs/hooks-intro.html) are used internally.

## Demos

- [Digital Audio Workstation](/daw)
- [Music chord, scale and progression tools](https://music-toolbox.now.sh)

## Examples

### Drum Pads

Have a hit a tap out a beat.

<DrumPads />

```jsx
import { Song, Track, Instrument } from 'reactronica';

// Simplified Drum Pads
const DrumPads = () => {
  const [notes, setNotes] = React.useState(null);

  return (
    <>
      <button
        onMouseDown={() => setNotes([{ name: 'C3' }])}
        onMouseUp={() => setNotes(null)}
      >
        Kick
      </button>
      {/* ...other pads */}

      {/* Reactronica Components */}
      <Song>
        <Track>
          <Instrument
            type="sampler"
            notes={notes}
            samples={{
              C3: '/drums/kick.wav',
              D3: '/drums/snare.wav',
              E3: '/drums/hat.wav',
            }}
          />
        </Track>
      </Song>
    </>
  );
};
```

### Piano Roll

Classic piano roll step sequencer. Try editing the notes and come up with different chords and melodies.

<StepsEditorExample />

```jsx
import { Song, Track, Instrument } from 'reactronica';

// Simplified Piano Roll
const PianoRollExample = () => {
  const [isPlaying, setIsPlaying] = useState(false);
  const [currentStepIndex, setCurrentStepIndex] = useState(0);
  const [steps, setSteps] = useState([
    ['C3', 'E3', 'A3'],
    null,
    ['C3', 'E3', 'G3', 'B3'],
    null,
    ['C3', 'F3', 'A3'],
    null,
    ['D3', 'G3', 'B3'],
    null,
  ]);

  return (
    <>
      <button onClick={() => setIsPlaying(!isPlaying)}>
        {isPlaying ? 'Play' : 'Stop'}
      </button>

      <PianoRoll
        currentStepIndex={currentStepIndex}
        onClick={(steps) => setSteps(steps)}
      />

      {/* Reactronica Components */}
      <Song isPlaying={isPlaying}>
        <Track
          steps={steps}
          // Callback triggers on every step
          onStepPlay={(_, index) => {
            setCurrentStepIndex(index);
          }}
        >
          <Instrument type="polySynth" />
        </Track>
      </Song>
    </>
  );
};
```

### Ukulele Tablature

Interactive tablature for ukulele. Have a play and try changing the notes while the song is playing. Arrow keys should work as well.

<TabExample />

```jsx
import { Song, Track, Instrument } from 'reactronica';

const UkuleleTab = () => {
  const [tab, setTab] = React.useState(defaultTab);
  const [isPlaying, setIsPlaying] = React.useState(false);
  const [currentIndex, setCurrentIndex] = React.useState(0);

  const steps = tabToSteps(tab);

  return (
    <>
      <button onClick={() => setIsPlaying(!isPlaying)}>
        {isPlaying ? 'Stop' : 'Play'}
      </button>

      <Tab
        tab={tab}
        currentIndex={currentIndex}
        onUpdate={(newTab) => {
          setTab(newTab);
        }}
      />

      {/* Reactronica Components */}
      <Song isPlaying={isPlaying} tempo={90}>
        <Track
          steps={steps}
          subdivision={'8n'}
          onStepPlay={(_, i) => {
            setCurrentIndex(i);
          }}
        >
          <Instrument
            type="sampler"
            samples={{
              C4: `/ukulele/uke_060.wav`,
              'C#4': `/ukulele/uke_061.wav`,
              // ... D4 - A#5 samples
              B5: `/ukulele/uke_083.wav`,
              C6: `/ukulele/uke_084.wav`,
            }}
          />
        </Track>
      </Song>
    </>
  );
};
```

## Usage

```jsx
import React from 'react';
import { Song, Track, Instrument, Effect } from 'reactronica';

const Example = () => {
  return (
    // Top level component must be the Song, with Tracks nested inside
    <Song tempo={90} isPlaying={true}>
      <Track
        // Array of several types
        steps={[
          // Note in string format
          'C3',
          // Object with note and duration
          { note: 'C3', duration: 0.5 },
          { note: 'D3', duration: 0.5 },
          // Array of strings for chords
          ['C3', 'G3'],
          null,
          null,
          // Array of objects for chords
          [{ note: 'C3', duration: 0.5 }, { note: 'G3', duration: 0.5 }],
          null,
        ]}
        // Chain effects by putting them in an array
        effects={[
          <Effect type="feedbackDelay" />,
          <Effect type="distortion" />,
        ]}
        volume={80}
        pan={0}
        // Callback for every tick
        onStepPlay={(step, index) => {
          doSomething(step, index);
        }}
      >
        <Instrument type="polySynth" />
      </Track>

      <Track>
        <Instrument
          type="sampler"
          samples={{
            C3: 'path/to/kick.mp3',
            D3: 'path/to/snare.mp3',
            E3: 'path/to/hihat.mp3',
          }}
          // Add some notes here to play
          notes={[{ name: 'C3' }]}
        />
      </Track>
    </Song>
  );
};
```

## Documentation

### Song

This component wraps around all Reactronica components, providing top level control of the audio.

#### Props

- `tempo` - Speed or pace of the song. Measured in beats per minute.
- `isPlaying` - Whether the song is playing or not. Defaults to `false`.

### Track

Tracks make up the layers of audio within a Song. Each individual Track has independent `volume`, `pan`, `steps` and `effects`.

#### Props

- `volume` - Volume of track
- `pan` - Panning of track
- `steps` - An array of notes to play
- `effects` - An array of `<Effect />` components
- `onStepPlay` - Callback that runs on every step

### Instrument

Should be wrapped by a Track and becomes its audio source.

#### Props

- `type` - Instrument type, `AMSynth | duoSynth | FMSynth | membraneSynth | monoSynth | polySynth | sampler | synth`
- `notes` - An array of notes to trigger Instrument, useful for auditioning sounds or live performance.
- `samples` - Only for `sampler` instrument type

### Effect

Audio effects such as `feedbackDelay`, `distortion` and `freeverb`. Applied to a Track, with multiple Effects able to be added.

#### Props

- `type` - Effect type, `feedbackDelay | distortion | freeverb`
